# PhD-Thesis-Data

Bioactive compounds produced by plants are valuable as food, medicine, and biopesticides. While several medicinally important plants have been studied for their bioactive properties, many more are yet to be explored. In this study, we used chemoinformatics methods to design novel drug-like and lead-like molecules inspired by organic metabolites of Indian medicinal and aromatic plants and food crops such as soybean. The names of organic metabolites were identified and selected from literature through text mining. Common scaffolds were identified between organic metabolites and drug molecules that show drug- or lead-like properties based on the computed 2D descriptors such as molecular weight, number of hydrogen bond donor atoms, number of rotatable bonds, number of rings, etc. Integrated knowledge of chemical scaffold composition and similarity with drug molecules has the potential to reveal prospective metabolite relationships with biological activities. With the help of in-house developed chemoinformatics tools, diverse scaffolds were used for building a focused virtual library. Further, the new virtual molecules annotated with desired properties can serve as readymade libraries for experimental screening in the context of drug discovery. Through network analysis, protein targets involved in various chronic disease-related pathways for the bioactive compounds present in food crops and Indian medicinal plants were also depicted. 
	To corroborate the results, we also performed UHPLC-MS/MS experiments of leaf and seed tissues of four soybean varieties grown in a plot at the Biochemical Sciences Division in CSIR-NCL, Pune. A general sample extraction procedure was performed with 70% methanol, and untargeted LC-MS metabolomics analysis was followed. The raw data were processed using various tools like XCMS Online, PUTMEDID-LCMS workflow in the taverna environment, ProbMetab in R environment, etc. We detected 6628 annotated mass features and identified 443 small molecules out of 1622 previously reported molecules in soybean through untargeted UHPLC/MS experiments with these analyses. We also identified 14 new soybean molecules that were not reported in soybean before and 06 previously reported soybean molecules confirmed by Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The methodology allows efficient detection and annotation of a large number of small organic molecules by merging previously known biosynthetic pathways from KEGG to that of the plant species by compound substructure sharing. Untargeted metabolomics revealed the global picture of the metabolite composition of leaf and seeds in the four soybean varieties, which included different classes of metabolites. This will help to understand the significant correlation between varieties and tissues that will make better decisions to select varieties and tissues containing high amounts of the target metabolite for drug development.
	Integrated knowledge of chemical scaffold composition and similarity with drug molecules reveals prospective metabolite relationship with biological activities. The scaffold network analysis revealed 14 scaffolds and 73 common molecules between previously reported soybean molecules and approved drugs. Similarly, 184 common soybean molecules were identified from the network of soybean molecules identified by UHPLC/MS experiments. A virtual library of novel molecules (n=1225) was generated from previously reported soybean molecules (n=5), as an example to establish the systematic approaches for drug designing. Further, the new virtual molecules annotated with desired properties (TPC, PDL, and PLL scores) can serve as readymade libraries for experimental screening. 
	This study demonstrates the application of chemoinformatics tools and UHPLC-MS/MS metabolomics to reveal both the previously known and novel molecules. These molecules can be analyzed in silico and those with desired properties (such as drug-like, lead-like, pesticide-like, etc.) can be chosen for subsequent targeted isolation. Thus, the study would enable the identification and isolation of the desired bioactive molecules from plants. Similarly, we have also designed allelochemicals-specific environment-friendly novel molecules inspired by pesticidal activities through the chemoinformatics approach. Further, we also developed a chemoinformatics open-source toolkit DoMINE (Database of Medicinally Important Natural products from plantaE) using Java. It can be used to build and access the Indian medicinal plant, soybean, and pesticide-inspired allelochemical molecular database created in this study, as well as to generate scaffold and virtual library.
